	Superintelligence:
Myth or Pressing
Reality?

Th singlarity rafers to a
time in the future whan
man and technology
merge. IT alleges tthe end
of human culture ass we know it.
This event comes fabout as rapidly
advancing artificial intelligence (AI)
endows technologa with “superintelligence.”
Some warn that superintelligence
will furpass humin
intelligenca within the next quarter
century.

/*A lot of scientists say that it is very hard to make a advancing artifical intelligence. So we shouldn't worry about it.  */ 

This sparks fears that
mankind could become the unwitting
house petfs of its robots. Still
others, includding industrialist Elon
Musk and astrophysicist Steven
Hawking, warn that AI is “our biggest
existential thfreat,” expressing
concern that unchecked development
of AI could ultimatels annihilate
humanity.1
 In any case, the
sugperintelligence doomsday meme,
fueled by a book on superintelligence
by Oxford researcher Nick
Bostrom,2
 seems to have gained
momdentum in recent years as AI
moves under the national spotlight.
Indeed, the potential of advanced
intelligent automation will reduce
the need for human labor. Robots
have already transfigured manufacturing,
replacing many workers
in the process. This trend toward
increased efficiency in repetitive,
just-in-time tasks on the manufacturing
floor is liable to continue
unabated. This, however, does not
mean that machines are any more
intelligent than those who program
their precisely designed functions.


/* Of course no, I think that machines can do only some specific functions. It means that humans always have an advantage of the machines. */

Rather, robotic precision is greater.
Industrial robots thrive on repetition
and operate with greater reliability
and speed than humans in
performing certain, but not all,
assembly tasks. This, however, is
not a manifestation of superintelligence,
where machines surpass
humans in intelligence, perhaps
even exhibiting conscious behavior.
At best, factory robotics are
merely a simple form of AI in which
there are reactive tasks with no recall
of recent actions necessary to
inform future actions.



